---
layout: post
author: Minh Nguyen
title: Night. 
---
Minecraft, is something we've all pretty much heard of. The indie game of 2010. But it has its influences, and they come back to over a decade ago. The idea of open exploration was mostly untapped, and with a concept so simple, it was only a matter of time that someone would catch on to what could lay in that possibility, including Noctis IV.

I can see it, the success of being able to work hard on an idea that has gone with only a brief flick through with other people. When this example became popular, people saw what it could be. It branched into how others saw the same idea that Minecraft came up with. Things like Terraria and King Arthur's Gold all had come from this one idea.

It is worrying that people seek to create more of that exact thing that made a certain success a success. The examples above don't do that specifically, but there are probably quite a few people who would go ahead and do that. One lot got there first, and others are trying all they can to emulate that which made that success, pretty much with the expectation of being able to compete with this new thing.

MMORPGs (Massive Multiplayer Online Role Playing Game) are an example of this, e.g. World of Warcraft + ripoff copies. The thing that WoW does, it does well. It puts this fantasy world out, and it was a successful. A subscription model of payment, a long tedious way of engagement, and it made and still does make huge profits. And as we've all seen, there have been countless things trying to be what WoW has achieved. And as far as we know, timing is everything. WoW got there first.

The industry is in a pretty scaled situation. One end reaches over to risk taking and creativity. Generally, they can be independent developers, but some triple A companies have taken that step.

Only just a bit though.

Mostly at the other end, we've got those who'd rather be conscious of how much they're going to make. When it comes to some games, people worry about just how much they're going to make from the publishing into the open world. And they're right. Sometimes, risk taking can result in ruining a game's success. There is one thing about it that they're missing as a result of it, and that a successful experiment is just as important as an unsuccessful one. People learn, and it isn't with success alone that creating a game which is original and different can gain status.

You can wonder just what it is that keeps that one company shovelling out Call of Duty: Modern Warfare over and over again with slightly different cover art.

Games compared to other mediums are vastly different, in that we as the viewer can interact with it. It can do so much, yet the big companies are taking a conservative reaction towards it. It shouldn't have to be like the rest of the mediums.
